NLB-7678: add documentation for IP Intelligence (#1856)
nginx/documentation: content/nginxaas-azure/app-protect/ip-intelligence.md

---
title: IP Intelligence
weight: 350
toc: true
url: /nginxaas/azure/app-protect/ip-intelligence/
nd-content-type: concept
nd-product: NAZURE
---

## Overview

> F5 WAF for NGINX includes an IP Intelligence feature that allows you to customize enforcement based on the source IP address of a request. Using IP Intelligence, you can block or log requests from IP addresses associated with known threat categories such as botnets, scanners, and phishing proxies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
F5 WAF for NGINX includes an IP Intelligence feature that allows you to customize enforcement based on the source IP address of a request. You can use IP Intelligence to block or log requests from IP addresses associated with known threat categories, such as botnets, scanners, and phishing proxies.
```

IP Intelligence is available on NGINXaaS for Azure deployments with the **Standard v3** [plan]({{< ref "/nginxaas-azure/billing/overview.md/#standard-v3-plan" >}}).

> {{< call-out "note" >}} No additional license is required. F5's existing license with the BrightCloud threat intelligence provider covers all NGINXaaS deployments. The IP address database is automatically updated every 60 minutes. {{< /call-out >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< call-out "note" >}} IP Intelligence does not require an additional license. F5's existing license with the BrightCloud threat intelligence provider covers all NGINXaaS deployments. The IP address database is automatically updated every 60 minutes. {{< /call-out >}}
```

## Threat categories

> IP Intelligence classifies IP addresses into the following threat categories. Each category can be individually configured to block, alarm, or allow traffic:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
IP Intelligence classifies IP addresses into the following threat categories. You can individually configure each category to block, alarm, or allow traffic.
```

| Denial of Service    | IP addresses associated with denial-of-service attacks                      |
| Infected Sources     | IP addresses from hosts known to be compromised                             |
| Mobile Threats       | IP addresses associated with malicious mobile applications                  |
| Phishing Proxies     | IP addresses used as proxies for phishing campaigns                         |
| Scanners             | IP addresses associated with network and vulnerability scanners             |
| Spam Sources         | IP addresses identified as sources of spam                                  |
| Tor Proxies          | IP addresses of known Tor exit nodes                                        |
| Web Attacks          | IP addresses associated with web-based attacks                              |
| Windows Exploits     | IP addresses associated with Windows-specific exploits                      |
{{< /table >}}

Since the threat database is continuously updated, enforcement may change over time. IP addresses may be added, removed, or moved between categories based on their reported activity.

## Add IP Intelligence to a WAF policy

> To use IP Intelligence, add the `ip-intelligence` section to a [custom WAF policy]({{< ref "/nginxaas-azure/app-protect/configure-waf.md#custom-policies" >}}). No additional setup or enablement steps are required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use IP Intelligence, you must add the `ip-intelligence` section to a [custom WAF policy]({{< ref "/nginxaas-azure/app-protect/configure-waf.md#custom-policies" >}}). No additional setup or enablement steps are required.
```

> Your policy needs two additions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your WAF policy needs two additions:
```

1. The `VIOL_MALICIOUS_IP` violation in `blocking-settings`.
2. The `ip-intelligence` section with the desired threat categories.

### Example policy

> The following policy enables IP Intelligence with all categories set to block and alarm:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following policy turns on IP Intelligence with all categories set to block and alarm.
```

      "enabled": true,
      "ipIntelligenceCategories": [
        { "category": "Anonymous Proxy", "alarm": true, "block": true },
        { "category": "BotNets", "alarm": true, "block": true },
        { "category": "Cloud-based Services", "alarm": true, "block": true },
        { "category": "Denial of Service", "alarm": true, "block": true },
        { "category": "Infected Sources", "alarm": true, "block": true },
        { "category": "Mobile Threats", "alarm": true, "block": true },
        { "category": "Phishing Proxies", "alarm": true, "block": true },
        { "category": "Scanners", "alarm": true, "block": true },
        { "category": "Spam Sources", "alarm": true, "block": true },
        { "category": "Tor Proxies", "alarm": true, "block": true },
        { "category": "Web Attacks", "alarm": true, "block": true },
        { "category": "Windows Exploits", "alarm": true, "block": true }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

- `"block": true` rejects requests from matching IP addresses.
- `"alarm": true` logs matching requests in the security logs.

You can customize each category independently — for example, blocking botnets while only alarming on scanners.

> Then reference this policy in your NGINX configuration using the `app_protect_policy_file` directive, as described in [Configure F5 WAF for NGINX]({{< ref "/nginxaas-azure/app-protect/configure-waf.md" >}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can reference this policy in your NGINX configuration using the `app_protect_policy_file` directive, as described in [Configure F5 WAF for NGINX]({{< ref "/nginxaas-azure/app-protect/configure-waf.md" >}}).
```

        { "category": "Mobile Threats", "alarm": true, "block": true },
        { "category": "Phishing Proxies", "alarm": true, "block": true },
        { "category": "Scanners", "alarm": true, "block": true },
        { "category": "Spam Sources", "alarm": true, "block": true },
        { "category": "Tor Proxies", "alarm": true, "block": true },
        { "category": "Web Attacks", "alarm": true, "block": true },
        { "category": "Windows Exploits", "alarm": true, "block": true }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

- `"block": true` rejects requests from matching IP addresses.
- `"alarm": true` logs matching requests in the security logs.

You can customize each category independently — for example, blocking botnets while only alarming on scanners.

Then reference this policy in your NGINX configuration using the `app_protect_policy_file` directive, as described in [Configure F5 WAF for NGINX]({{< ref "/nginxaas-azure/app-protect/configure-waf.md" >}}).

For the full policy configuration reference, see the official [IP Intelligence documentation](https://docs.nginx.com/waf/policies/ip-intelligence/#configure-policies-for-ip-intelligence).

## What's next

> - [Enable F5 WAF for NGINX Logs]({{< ref "/nginxaas-azure/app-protect/enable-logging.md" >}}) to monitor IP Intelligence violations in your security logs.

Reviewer 2: I don't think we need a `what's next` section here as IP Intelligence is a stand-alone feature.

Author: removed
